CS248 Video Game Project Proposal


Team Members:  Tom Deane      (tdeane@stanford.edu)
               David Erickson (derickso@stanford.edu)
               Daniel Holbert (dholbert@stanford.edu)

Game Name:  SphereWars 
(this is a codename, we'll come up with something better)


Main Idea:
----------
  SphereWars is a multiplayer arcade game in which the goal is to knock every other player
  off the stage.  Every player rolls around inside of a shape (Cube, Sphere, other Polyhedrons) and there
  are advantages and disadvantages for each of these shapes. A sphere will roll much faster than a cube
  giving you the chance to knock someone off the stage more easily by collision.  A cube has the advantage
  of providing greater friction with the ground (and thus greater control) whenever a high-kickback power-up
  (such as a missile) is used against the enemy.  Similarly, a sphere colliding with a cube will result in much
  greater displacement of the sphere.
		
  The 3D world will consist of a stage which can assume various shapes and forms.  We plan to have all sorts
  of features available in the stage:  slopes, random obstacles, powerups, holes.  In addition, different
  frictional surfaces (ice, oil, etc) will make the game more exciting.


2*N (6) Advanced Features:
--------------------------
 - On-Screen Control Panel: This will display the score, lives, and
    the currently activated power-ups for each player

 - Simulated Dynamics: We'll be simulating the physical forces of
    gravity and friction.  A player's shape (sphere, cube, etc.) as 
    well as the terrain type (cement, ice) will affect motion.

 - Collision Detection: This will be crucial for letting players bump
   into each other.

 - Procedurally Generated Terrain: Our game will feature
    automatically-generated maps.

 - Level of Detail Control: The user will be able to customize the
   level of detail, to accomidate a wider spectrum of gaming hardware.

 - Advanced Rendering Effects: Our game will feature effects like bump
   mapping and reflections.


Other cool game features:
-------------------------
 - Networking: We plan on making this game multiplayer over a network,
    with support for many players and possibly for team games.

 - Powerups: Players will be able to get powerups that affect their
   speed, change their shape, and give them weapons.
 

Technical Challenges:
---------------------
  There is a great deal of complex physics involved in a game like this one.  Learning of all these concepts and 
  applying them efficiently and correctly will be a great challenge.

  We also plan on making this game platform-independent, which presents restrictions and challeneges.

  Maintaining a consistent "World" state across all the players in a  network game will be a great challenge.
